PHS Dashboard Brief
PBS - Public Health Service

Aim - Create a dashboard using R-Shiny and PHS open data on secondary care to investigate what has been happening from 2020 onwards in the acute hospital sector
    - tell the story of and weave your narrative of the pandemic and its impact on the secondary care sector in NHS Scotland.

Main Questions - Consider the impact that winter may have on the health care , primarily the hospital (acute care) sector. 
1. To what extent is the ‘winter crises’ the media predicts real? 
2. How has winter impacted NHS Scotland’s hospital system in the past? 
3. Why might it be even more critical in the coming year and might the pandemic influence the potential scenario.

3 Aspects: 
Temporal: How has this issue changed over time? (Is it getting better or worse?)
Geographic: How does this issue differ between areas in Scotland? (Where should efforts be focussed?)
Demographic: Who is most affected by this issue? (Who should be targeted with efforts?)

3 Aspects Sample Questions:
The whole system: from what’s coming through the front door in A&E and then how it filters through; how many emergency admissions are there, how many electives, how does this impact the lengths of stay people have in hospital?

Do people have longer lengths of stay from elective or emergency admissions?

What does this mean for the number of people in intensive care and the number of beds?
Capacity – what is happening to the number of beds over the period? Perhaps think about the specialities these are if there has been specific variation?

How significant are the differences in hospital activity across the country? Does urban/rural have an impact or is it related to the size and capacity of the health board?
Are there specialty’s that have more stable activity patterns over time and how much of an impact is stability on overall activity?

Are there any demographic groups that are driving the activity?
Are there key cohorts of patient (based on their demographics) that drive the overall hospital activity?
How significant is deprivation as a driver of hospital activity?




Make:
RShiny Dashboard
- Stat Analysis


Extension:
Vaccination vs Affection Rate
Hospital vs HSCP
Forcast


Sunday
Find relevant dataframe to ask the questions
